 
Code: 19A05603b 
 
 
B.Tech III Year II Semester (R19) Regular Examinations July/August 2022 
INTRODUCTION TO MACHINE LEARNING 
(Common to CSE & IT) 
 
Time: 3 hours                                                                                                             Max. Marks: 70 
 
PART – A 
(Compulsory Question) 
 
***** 
1  Answer the following: (10 X 02 = 20 Marks)  
 (a) List the basic design issues to machine learning. 2M 
 (b) State version space representation theorem. 2M 
 (c) What is the representational power of perceptrons? 2M 
 (d) How to compute excepted value and variance of random variable? 2M 
 (e) State bayes theorem. 2M 
 (f) Under what conditions is successful learning possible? 2M 
 (g) How to use entropy as evaluation function? 2M 
 (h) What factors contribute to the popularity of genetic algorithm? 2M 
 (i) What is the essential difference between analytical and inductive learning? 2M 
 (j) What are the limitations of explanation-based learning? 2M 
 
PART – B 
(Answer all the questions: 05 X 10 = 50 Marks) 
 
2 (a) Explain the concept of inductive bias in brief. 5M 
 (b) Describe hypothesis space search in decision tree learning. 5M 
 OR  
3 (a) How the concept learning can be viewed as the task of searching and explain? 5M 
 (b) Consider the given below training example which finds malignant tumors from MRI scans. 
Example Shape Size Color Surface Thickness Target concept 
1 Circular Large Light Smooth Thick Malignant 
2 Circular Large Light Irregular Thick Malignant 
3 Oval Large Dark Smooth Thin Benign 
4 Oval Large Light Irregular Thick Malignant 
5 Circular Small Light Smooth Thick Benign 
 
5M 
    
4 (a) List the appropriate problems for neural network learning. 5M 
 (b) Discus the perceptron  training rule and delta rule that solves the learning problem of 
perceptron. 
5M 
 OR  
5 (a) Write a remark on representation of feed forward networks. 5M 
 (b) Explain about Lamarckian evolution. 5M 
    
6 (a) Explain maximum likelihood and least squared error hypothesis. 5M 
 (b) Consider a football game between two rival teams: Team 0 and Team 1. Suppose Team 0 
wins 95% of the times and Team 1 wins the remaining matches. Among the games won by 
team 0, only 30% of them come from playing on teams 1’s football field. On the other -hand 
75% of the victories for team 1 are obtained while playing at home. If team 1 is to host the next 
match between the two teams, which team will most likely emerge as the winner? 
5M 
 OR  
Contd. in page 2 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
 
R19  
Code: 19A05603b 
 
 
7 (a) Explain Bayesian belief networks. 5M 
 (b) Prove that how maximum likelihood (Bayesian learning) can be used in any learning 
algorithms that are used to minimize the squared error between actual output hypothesis  and 
predicted output hypothesis. 
5M 
    
8 (a) Explain about simple error and true error. 5M 
 (b) Explain how reinforcement learning problem differs from other function approximation tasks. 5M 
 OR  
9 (a) Define excepted value, variance, standard deviation and estimate bias of a random variable. 5M 
 (b) Write a short note on: (i) Radial basis function. (ii) Locally weighted regression .                     
(iii) Sampling theory. 
5M 
    
10 (a) Write the Learn-One rule algorithm. 5M 
 (b) Discus the inverse resolution rule for the first order logic. 5M 
 OR  
11 (a) Justify whether Q-learning is a special case of temporal difference algorithm or not. 5M 
 (b) Explain sequential covering algorithm. 5M 
 
***** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
R19 